# TripleTen_projects
Projects I worked on while attending the Data Science TripleTen Bootcamp


| Project namber| Title | Description |
| :-----------: | ----------- | ----------- |
1 | Customer Churn Prediction | The primary objective of this project is to analyze the dataset and build a machine learning model that can predict whether a customer is likely to churn. By leveraging advanced analytical techniques, the model will help marketing team develop targeted retention strategies, ultimately reducing churn rates and improving customer satisfaction. To build this predictive model, marketing team has compiled a comprehensive dataset containing personal information of clients, including details about their service plans and contract types. By identifying customers at risk of leaving, the company can proactively offer promotional codes and special plan options to retain them. |
2 | Sentiment Analysis for customer Reviews | A Machine Learning for Text. The goal is developing a system for filtering and categorizing movie reviews, and to train a model to automatically detect negative reviews. We'll be using a dataset of IMBD movie reviews with polarity labelling to build a model for classifying positive and negative reviews. It will need to reach an F1 score of at least 0.85. |
3 | Age Prediction using Facial Images | Computer Vision project. The supermarket chain Good Seed would like to explore whether Data Science can help them adhere to alcohol laws by making sure they do not sell alcohol to people underage. You are asked to conduct that evaluation, so as you set to work, keep the following in mind: 1) The shops are equipped with cameras in the checkout area which are triggered when a person is buying alcohol. 2) Computer vision methods can be used to determine age of a person from a photo. 3) The task then is to build and evaluate a model for verifying people's age. |
4 | Predictive Modeling for Taxi Demand at Airport | Sweet Lift Taxi company has collected historical data on taxi orders at airports. To attract more drivers during peak hours, we need to predict the amount of taxi orders for the next hour. Build a model for such a prediction. The RMSE metric on the test set should not be more than 48. |
5 | Car Value Prediction Model for Rusty Bargain used cars | Rusty Bargain used car sales service is developing an app to attract new customers. In that app, you can quickly find out the market value of your car. We have access to historical data: technical specifications, trim versions, and prices. We need to build the model to determine the value. Rusty Bargain is interested in: 1) the quality of the prediction, 2) the speed of the prediction, 3) the time required for training. |
6 | Insurance Benefit Prediction for Enhanced Marketing Strategies | The insurance company wants to solve several tasks with the help of Machine Learning, and you are asked to evaluate that possibility. Find customers who are similar to a given customer. This will help the company's agents with marketing. Predict whether a new customer is likely to receive an insurance benefit. Can a trained prediction model do better than an untrained dummy model? Can it do worse? Explain the logic. Predict the number of insurance benefits a new customer is likely to receive using a linear regression model. Protect clients' personal data without breaking the model from the previous task. |
7 | Predictive Modeling for Quality Assurance | Data is indexed with the date and time of acquisition (date feature). Parameters that are next to each other in terms of time are often similar. The source dataset contains the training and test sets with all the features. You have the raw data that was only downloaded from the warehouse. Before building the model, check the correctness of the data. |
8 | Identifying the Optimal Region for New Oil Well Development | We work for the OilyGiant mining company. Our task is to find the best place for a new well. Steps to choose the location: 1) Build a model for predicting the volume of reserves in the new wells. 2) Pick the oil wells with the highest estimated values. 3) Pick the region with the highest total profit for the selected oil wells. We have data on oil samples from three regions. Build a model that will help to pick the region with the highest profit margin. |
9 | Predicting Customer Churn in Beta Bank | Beta Bank customers are leaving: little by little, chipping away every month. The bankers figured out it’s cheaper to save the existing customers rather than to attract new ones. We need to predict whether a customer will leave the bank soon. You have the data on clients’ past behavior and termination of contracts with the bank. Build a model with the maximum possible F1 score. To pass the project, you need an F1 score of at least 0.59. Check the F1 for the test set. |
10 | Predictive Modeling for Megaline's Plan Recommendation: Smart vs. Ultra | Mobile carrier has found out that many of their subscribers use legacy plans. They want to develop a model that would analyze subscribers' behavior and recommend one of Megaline's newer plans: Smart or Ultra. We have access to behavior data about subscribers who have already switched to the new plans. For this classification task, we need to develop a model that will pick the right plan. Develop a model with the highest possible accuracy. In this project, the threshold for accuracy is 0.75. Check the accuracy using the test dataset. |
11 | Exploring Taxi Ride Data in Chicago | We're working as an analyst for Zuber, a new ride-sharing company that's launching in Chicago. Our task is to find patterns in the available information. We want to understand passenger preferences and the impact of external factors on rides. Working with a database, we'll analyze data from competitors and test a hypothesis about the impact of weather on ride frequency. |
12 | Revenue Analysis and Customer Behavior Insights for Prepaid Plan Optimization | The commercial department wants to know which of the plans brings in more revenue in order to adjust the advertising budget. We're going to carry out a preliminary analysis of the plans based on a relatively small client selection. We'll have the data on clients: who the clients are, where they're from, which plan they use, and the number of calls they made and text messages they sent in 2018. Our job is to analyze clients' behavior and determine which prepaid plan brings in more revenue. |
13 | Optimizing Grocery Delivery, Order Analysis and Prediction | Instacart is a grocery delivery platform where customers can place a grocery order and have it delivered to them, similar to how Uber Eats and Door Dash work. This particular dataset was publicly released by Instacart in 2017 for a Kaggle competition. |






